# README

this is an example rails 5.1 app, created with the --webpack flag:

```
rails new rails-webpack-code-splitting --webpack -J -T -C -d=postgresql
```

it features some tweaks to the webpack config to support the following things:

- explicit vendor and manifest chunks to improve caching of infrequently
  changed assets that are used on every page (lodash and cowsay, in this app)
- chunks for the loaded-on-demand scripts, [date-picker](./app/javascript/date-picker.js)
  and [tooltip](./app/javascript/tooltip.js)
- css loader and file loader, so i can load in styles and images that come with
  installed dependencies (jquery ui in this case), note: these are loaded as js
  and are added into the `<head>` as `<style>` tags when the js executes
- uglify js to deliver smaller payloads, and support tree shaking ([webpacker pr for this here](https://github.com/rails/webpacker/pull/114))

you can see it on heroku here:

https://fierce-everglades-99058.herokuapp.com

opening the "network" tab while clicking around will show you the following:

__manifest-*.js__

this is the webpack runtime files, and changes whenever any files are changed,
because it includes the hashes for all the generated chunks. this is a tiny file
that [should probably be inlined](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inline-manifest-webpack-plugin)
but that seems tricky to bother with.

__vendor-*.js__

this is the "vendor bundle", e.g. libs that don't change often, and therefore
should keep the same cache breaking hash even when application changes. it seems
like tree-shaking does *not* affect these files though. i.e. all of lodash gets
dragged in, making it a larger than necessary file.

if the vendor'd chunk is turned off, stuff is put into application instead.
this causes application.js' size to jump from 6K to is 39K, but you don't have
to load a 100K vendor file, so the tree shaking cuts off ~66K.


__application-*.js__

includes all the js that [application.js](app/javascript/packs/application.js)
depends on, except the "loaded on demand" stuff (e.g. `require.ensure ...`)

__0-*.js__

this, and the other `{integer}-*.js` files are generated by webpack's commons
chunk plugin. this one happens to have the common dependencies between
[date-picker.js](./app/javascript/date-picker.js) and [tooltip.js](./app/javascript/tooltip.js),
which is jquery, and the parts of jquery-ui that are used.


__1-*.js__

this happens to be [tooltip.js](./app/javascript/tooltip.js) and it's dependencies
that aren't already loaded in `0-*.js`.

__2-*.js__

this happens to be [date-picker.js](./app/javascript/date-picker.js) and it's dependencies
that aren't already loaded in `0-*.js`.


## Pushing to heroku

Pushing this to heroku results in the buildpacks being in the wrong order. You
can correct them, and make sure all the ENV vars are set, with the commands
below.

```bash
heroku create
heroku buildpacks:set heroku/nodejs --index 1
heroku buildpacks:set heroku/ruby --index 2
heroku config:set NODE_ENV=production WEBPACK_ENV=production RACK_ENV=production RAILS_ENV=production RAILS_LOG_TO_STDOUT=enabled RAILS_SERVE_STATIC_FILES=enabled
git push heroku master
```
